Digit Recognition project aims to create
a system capable of accurately
identifying handwritten digits. We start
by collecting a dataset of handwritten
digit images, such as the MNIST dataset,
labeled with their corresponding digits.
Preprocessing techniques like
normalization and resizing are applied to
standardize the images. Feature
extraction methods, such as pixel
intensities or more advanced techniques
like Histogram of Oriented Gradients
(HOG), are used to capture relevant
information from the images. Machine
learning models, such as Support Vector
Machines (SVM), Random Forests, or
deep learning architectures like
Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs),
are trained on the extracted features to
classify digits. The model's performance
is evaluated using metrics like accuracy
and confusion matrix. We fine-tune the
model and optimize hyperparameters to
improve its accuracy. Finally, we deploy
the trained model into a real-world
application where it can accurately
recognize handwritten digits in realtime.
